# Contents of this Branch
This is one of the worst modules I have gone through. I get that theres a lot of black boxes behind the idea of how assimp parses data, and how the functions are written, but I believe I am partially at fault for not feeling to well at the moment. I have had bad experiences trying to run assimp in the past, so I decided to cheat a little bit to see if using the official code works, and sure enough it does. I'm going to try to dive deeper the same day I'm writing this. Just updating the README.md file as a progress check. I feel like this chapter shouldn't even be difficult to me. Sure there's some trust you need to have that the implementation files parse the data correctly, but I believe the general there should be enough to get a grasp of whats happening.

The Next Day:
After sitting down and reading the code again, the process is not difficult, and is simply a dynamic way of loading models. This module essentially sums up the content that I have been reading through. The difficult part is trying to imagine in your head what the data structure looks like. I feel like the module really presented the data structure in a really vague way, and I wish there were more concrete examples aside from just loading the model. Then again, perhaps its best for this level of abstraction since there probably isn't a standard, and knowing the general outline of how to load a model is perhaps the best thing to obtain from this module. There's surely more than just assimp as an asset importer, with more than just .obj files, so I'll just leave it at that.

I feel like I should talk about the gist of loading a model, but I feel like a broken record at this point saying some what if the same thing, except on a larger scale this time around. Anyways, when using assimp, we give it the model that it should parse, which it will then give us a data structure that we can interact with to load a model. This data structure adheres to nodes, with a nodel each representing a mesh on the model. Each node contains the mesh data (vertices, normals, texture coordinates), indices, and texture data(diffuse, and specular for now). We are to compile this data ourselves with the use of libraries to automate the same rendering process we have been doing this entire time. Establish mesh data, set index order to draw, apply texture, send uniforms, and draw the object.
