## Contents of This Branch
Within the contents of this chapter, there was more of an emphasis on organization and workflow. Due to my lack of understanding of cmake organization, I had to revamp the whole system again, this time not complicating cwd and pwd to fit towards my wants and needs. Every project in this directory is independent from each other. I'm not too sure what I'm going to do about reusing libraries, but that'll be fixed eventually. I wanted to get more progress done on learning about OpenGL and not spend another day on organization.

Heading towards the next step on the list for learning, today involved being more interactive with the shaders, developing a much more intuitive system with each shader having their own file, rather than using a variable char. Along with that, the code to initialize and use the shaders have been placed into a library for ease of use. As though it is much nicer and cleaner to use the library, I'm partially afraid of forgetting the contents of the library, and it becoming a blackbox to me. Although I did feel like the process to prepare shaders without a library was intuitive, as such perhaps my concerns aren't really concerns.

At a more indepth look towards interacting with shaders, there are already predefined variables that we must use, such as gl_Position, and FragColor. The two predefined variables are self explanatory about what they do, correlating to the position of the respective vertices, and its color. I also tested out using uniforms, which I understand that they are essentially globals that are sent to the shaders, however there was a debugging incident where I had initialized a uniform before selecting the shader program I was using. Understanding it now, it does make sense that the shader program should be selected first before setting uniforms.
