# Contents of this Branch
Today's module made me want to revisit the depth testing module again, as a I feel like I didn't get as much out of it as I should have. There should be more to understanding other than what the depth buffer does and how to tweak with it, rather how does the math behind it work. I'm not sure if this is a waste of time or not, but I believe theres some merit to doing so. As such, I'll spend my time to learn more about depth testing, and NDC with how the math plays out there, then I'll reconvene with the stencil module.

Day after: the depth testing module has now been updated to my satisfaction.

To continue on with the stencil testing, the process in which this occurs is not too complicated compared to understanding depth values. To understand stenciling, its probably best to simply walk through the code. Note that there are probably more complicated things to implement using stenciling, however this module really only went through probably the easiest thing: object outlines.

Stenciling can be started with the stencil buffer, which you can imagine as on your screen, a grid of 0s and 1s. There are 8 bits to each pixel normally, but as of right now, we only utilize it as either 0 or 1. We have the power to change these values to 1 or 0, and effectively determine how the rendering process should behave under the stencil buffer. In the case of making an outline of an object, first we must render the main object that we want an outline of, and render it as usual. To properly interact with the stencil buffer though, we first need to state the conditions. We set the entire buffer to be composed of 0s, in which if we were to render an object, the pixel that the object occupies will be set to 1. If done correctly, in the sea of 0s in the stencil buffer, there should be a object shaped imprint of 1s. Tweaking the conditions once again, this time around we set it such that we want to render another object under the context that the stencil value it occupies DOES NOT equal to 1. The object this time will be the same object but scaled up a bit. We then draw the object again, to which we should see that there is an outline around our shape. We effectively redrew the same object again, except that its scaled up and just didnt render over the original object, that's all there is to it.

I did gloss over this module quite a lot, but this does cover the general functionality of the stencil buffer. A new shader program is needed for this outline just to set its color, but that's about it, along with some settings like generally enabling stenciling and refreshing the stencil buffer bit similar to depth. The code is pretty self explanatory, so I think it's alright to move on.
