# Contents of this Branch
A very short module informing about other ways of passing data into the GPU, which I can see the potential performance increase after doing a little research. In the case of rendering particles where real-time updates are needed, the buffer that is sent to the GPU will need to be constantly updated. The problem is, the buffer we send it will need to be deleted, reinstantiated, then passed every draw call to update the position of the particles. This is of course, very inefficient if all we're doing is updating the position. This is assuming that there are other information that needs to be passed in. If we were able to simply rewrite some parts of the buffer, that would be ideal, to which we can using subdata and reorganizing the data we pass to the GPU. Normally, data is interleaved together, meaning the data we send in is intentionally in the order of position, normals, texture coordinates, and repeat. To be able to edit the buffer accordingly, we can actually initialize 3 different arrays, and import those instead side by side. This allows us to edit the information a lot more easily since we can simply overwrite that specific information without interfering with the other information.

In this module, you do also learn about copying buffers, which at the moment I can't exactly understand or appreciate the purpose just yet. After some researching, I do see that copying from another buffer allows us to avoid any CPU time as copying is done entirely on the GPU. I do understand that moving back and forth between CPU and GPU is probably the largest bottleneck in graphics programming, but I'd like to see this for myself. Everything seems to lead to PBR or any simulations, so I look forward to learning about that.
