# Contents of this Branch
CubeMaps are deceptive in how they're used, being that its makes more sense then just simply being an insanely large box in the sky. To put it simply, the skybox is simply a cube that encapsulates the camera. Normally, this should block out everything because of the depth filter, but in this case we use this to our advantage to make the cube map or skybox to mathematically seem like its at the edge of our frustum. I will need to review how this works, but our depth value is directly associated with the z value for the frag coordinates, which we did cover in module 13_DepthTesting, to which the z value is what determines if an object passes the depth test or not; a smaller value here results in a closer object, thus meaning it'll take priority it being rendered to screen. The values here range between 0 and 1 after all math considered. To trick our GPU into thinking that the skybox is furthest away, instead of sending our positions to be read normally with values xyzw, we will sending the values of xyww instead, inorder to force our z value (z / w), to become 1 ( w / w = 1). This makes the skymap take the lowest priority in being rendered according to the depth buffer, and as such despite it being a small cube around the camera, it allows other things to be rendered.

I didn't look in it too much, but there are two methods, in which one is the more optimized version. The intial method is to rendered the skybox first, then everything else afterwards to draw over the skybox, which I did not do, but I do understand. The second method was what was described, which this saves some performance as we skip over rendering some parts of the skybox since the objects are rendered in first, then the skybox last.
