# Contents of this Branch
## Reviewing Linear Algebra
Quickly taking a quick glance over the module involving transformations, there seems to be where reviewing linear algebra will be necessary. To do so, I will be watch through the entirety of 3b1b's entire series. I have taken linear algebra before, so this should be more of a review than anything.

Day 2 of going through the 3b1b linear algebra series, I am definitely learning a lot more, especially intended meaning(?) of the values rather than blindly doing the computations correctly. I'm sure this is something that I'll have to do eventually, and the computational part should be done by computers and not me. The amount of time spent here will be worth it, I'm sure. Unfortunately though there doesn't seem to be too many videos left. As I'm typing this out, I am on lecture 11/15. They are short, however many of them are worth rewatching for a better understanding, as well as conducting a bit of research to confirm my understanding.

Day 3 holy I think after an uncomfortable amount of time spent rewatching the video and googling some stuff, something finally clicked in my head about linear algebra and a bit of space manipulation. This is after finishing chapter 11/16 from 3b1b's video. It felt like all of the previous chapters led to up understanding what it really means to compute the volume of a parallelepiped, and what each step of the way geometrically means. More on what I learned in my notes I took on Obsidian. Maybe I'll post it some where, although they definitely aren't the best notes but they will help me remember the pain of going through all that. It does appear at looking at a glance at the Transformation module for OpenGL, I think I can realistically stop the lectures here? Although I feel like I should take the time to finish the rest of the series. It's something thats potentially nice to know in the future.
After Thought:
After sitting down and going through Chapter 12 featuring Cramer's rule, I don't think I should continue. By all means I think that its quite fun to learn and understand the geometrical interpretations of this, however I feel like that's all it is. Perhaps I'm have the wrong view of what I need to understand for graphics programming? But I feel like the more important part is understanding that I need to solving a systems of equations, and I can do that with code, and the method in which I do it may or may not be important, be it Cramer's rule or Gaussian elimination. The bottom line is solve the linear system of equation, and what does the result geometrically represent. I truly did enjoy learning about linear algebra using 3b1b's lectures, but I will move on to continuing learning OpenGL now.

## Messing with OpenGL
It felt like I breezed through this module having reviewed linear algebra for a few days, which at least that means my time reviewing hasn't gone to waste. This module was rather short though, serving more as an introduction to the glm library and a very brief introduction to linear algebra. Most of the trouble was actually trying to making CMake detect glm, yet even that wasn't too difficult thanks to reviewing cmake that one day. Not much else to write, was over prepared but that'll probably be a good thing later down the line anyways.
